# Leaf-Disease-Detection-System
Agriculture is the backbone of India. Tomato leaf disease detection employs technology to detect the diseases of tomato leaf when tomato leaf is uploaded and then the system will classify what kind of diseases the leaf has.This application will help farmers or peoples who love to grow plants detect the diseases as early as possible to save the plant from getting bad. Almost 65\% of Indian population relies on agriculture and farming. Hence, disease detection plays a vital role in reducing the degradation of agricultural products. As tomato is a vital vegetable in the Indian household, it is also the  second most often grown vegetable in India. The tomato plants are prone to diseases like late blight, septoria leaf spot, leaf mold, bacterial spot and, two spotted spider mites. Hence, implementing automatic disease detection's in agriculture can significantly improve the crop health and yield. Various researches have been conducted to overcome this  challenge. In this study an optimized Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and You Look Only Once V8(YOLO) is introduced for early disease detection in tomato leaves. A dataset containing  images were taken which overcomes the limitations of under-fitting in existing models. The results show that the overall accuracy achieved by the model was 97\%. The results of our model shows that the proposed methodology can help farmers to detect tomato plant diseases at an early stage, thus prevents yield losses and improve overall growth productivity.
